This rocket was designed using Fusion 360. The model was inspired by the
ROCKETS!!!! AGM-12 Bulllpup Missile which was used for military Defense and Offense between 1955 and 1962. Unlike the huge rockets that take people to space, the original Bullpup was smaller than you may think and would fit inside most peoples living room.  Estes makes a rocket kit based on the Bullpup as well and the dimensions and scale from their technical data was helpful in getting the size right and making sure all the elements needed were included such as a recovery system, launch tube and engine mount.   This version was the third prototype model. The first was the exact same size as the Estes Rocket but the fuselage was way too big to fit on most 3d printers. The next one fit on the printer but was way too small for such a big engine. The third was our Goldilox.   The fin count was reduced from 4 to 3 in order to take a bit of weight off. The launch guide is incorporated into the fins. The hope was to have a more stable guidance system, better aerodynamics, and greater structural support for the fins. But I’m no rocket scientist. The recovery system has a mounting ring in the fuselage and a loop in the nose to tie off the parachute. The Rocket will hold a standard 18mm Engine and the total weight before painting is 50-60g when following the suggested print settings.

File Information: The following design files are included: OBJ, STL, F3D, STP, and AMF. Most slicing software such as Cura or Prusa Slicer (both free) can read OBJ and STL, the F3D is a Fusion 360 file and the STP can be opened by many CAD design programs. The AMF file has print settings as well as the objects when using Prusa Slicer.   Printing Instructions: Your milage may vary but these are the print settings that worked for me on a Prusa Mk3s.

Orient the build with the nose facing up and the fuselage pointing down.

Nozzle: 0.4mm
Layer Height: .25 or smaller
Perimeters: 2
Bottom Layers: 3
Top Layers: 3
Infill: 0%
Skirt: None
Brim: 5mm
Supports: None Speed: All print speeds set exactly the same except the first layer, I use 20mm/s for the first layer and 45mm/s for all other print functions and travel at 180mm/s Seam: Random
Fans: Use minimal part cooling fan speeds. Material: PETG: has good bend before break, very strong, can print easily with minimal cooling fans. PLA: less flexible than PETG but generally easier to print with. 

Assembly Instructions: The nose cone should be a pretty tight fit. The fuselage and the nose cone will need some sanding to get the fit just right so the nose cone can pop off with a bit of force but not fall out on it’s own. Sand the inside of the fuse-lodge where the cone fits until it’s nice and smooth then start on the cone (if needed). Go slow until you have it just right, if you take off too much material you will need to use McGyver techniques or re-print the cone.   I haven’t figured out how to 3d Print a parachute yet but a 9-12 chute should do the trick. Estes has them for $3.99. That’s pretty much the basics needed to fly. The model can be sanded and painted to taste.  If you want to design your own Rocket, YOU CAN. This model was designed in Fusion 360 which has a free license for students - like cub scouts but it’s really hard to learn. You can also use Tinkercad and Meshmixer, both of which are easier to use and FREE!!!! Rockets may seem complex but they are really just a tube, a cone and some triangles
 Why did I do this project with Gracen: First of all it’s really cool to think something up in your head, design it on a computer and make it in my living room. Second  3d Printing is a relatively new technology in manufacturing and is already effectively being used in the Medial, Aerospace, and Automotive industries and there are many indications that Additive Manufacturing (3d Printing) will be the next industrial revolution. Surgical steel scalpels can be 3d Printed, houses can be 3d printed, and everything in-between. Before 3d printing if you wanted to make something cool you would use a simple tool like a saw or hammer to create a more complex tool, jig or mold specific for the cool something. The complex tools, jigs and molds are expensive to produce and when that something cool is now bogus all those special things that cost a lot to make are now worthless and destined for the recycle bin or worst the landfill. AM also allows for rapid prototyping. Years ago physical prototypes were built by hand, sculpting clay, carving wood, etc and took a lot of time and skill, or tooling would need to be made which also takes a long time.   In our near future 3d printers may become as common place in our homes as a laptop, inkjet printer, or coffee maker. Factories and manufacturing facilities of all kinds will use AM technology in their production lines as well as rapid prototyping. I love science and science fiction, my first introduction to additive manufacturing was on the Star Trek Enterprise which is equipped with a replicator that not only makes tasty meals it also makes parts for the ship if they need to be replaced. But the replicator on the Enterprise was only used for good, Starfleet's safety protocols prevent unauthorized replication of dangerous objects, such as weapons and poisonous substances.

License: When creating physical object from designs that are created by others it’s important to understand how you can ethically use the designs. For this project these files can be used and changed in anyway you want but cannot be used for commercial purposes and you have to give credit to the original designer and not claim it as an original design. (Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)). You also need to be careful not to violate any copy-writes, patents, or trademarks.   When making this project I checked to see if Estes had any patents on their design, which I did not find, I made sure not to use any logo’s or images that are subject to copy-write. For example, the only graphics on the rocket are 144 in squares similar to the Pack 144 logo, the 144 logo is an implied trademark but it is not registered and may be a gray area, except that I am a member of the Pack and legal use is implied by membership. The design changes from the original sources (AGM-12, and Estes BullPup) are significant and it cannot be considered a forgery, finally credit has been given to Estes and the AGM-12. 
  
